Adds tutorial for creating a worker (#9179)
PrefectHQ/prefect: docs/tutorials/developing-a-new-worker-type.md

---
description: Learn how to create a Prefect worker to run your flows.
tags:
    - work pools
    - workers
    - orchestration
    - flow runs
    - deployments
    - storage
    - infrastructure
    - tutorial
    - recipes
---

# Developing a New Worker Type

!!! warning "Advanced Topic"
    This tutorial is for users who want to extend the Prefect framework and completing this successfully will require deep knowledge of Prefect concepts. For standard use cases, we recommend using one of the [available workers](/concepts/work-pools/#worker-types) instead.

> Prefect workers are responsible for creating execution environments and starting flow runs within those execution environments. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Prefect workers are responsible for setting up execution infrastructure and starting flow runs on that infrastructure.
```

> A list of available workers can be found in the [Work Pools, Workers & Agents documentation](/concepts/work-pools/#worker-types). What if you want to execute your flow runs on infrastructure that doesn't have a worker available? This tutorial will walk you through creating a custom worker that can run your flows on your chosen infrastructure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A list of available workers can be found in the [Work Pools, Workers & Agents documentation](/concepts/work-pools/#worker-types). What if you want to execute your flow runs on infrastructure that doesn't have an available worker type? This tutorial will walk you through creating a custom worker that can run your flows on your chosen infrastructure.
```

## Worker Configuration

When setting up an execution environment for a flow run, a worker receives configuration for the infrastructure it is designed to work with. Examples of configuration values include memory allocation, CPU allocation, credentials, image name, etc. The worker then uses this configuration to create the execution environment and start the flow run.

!!! tip "How are the configuration values populated?"

>     The work pool that a worker polls for flow runs has a [base job template](/concepts/work-pools/#base-job-template) associated with it which is the contract for how configuration values populate for each flow run.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The work pool that a worker polls for flow runs has a [base job template](/concepts/work-pools/#base-job-template) associated with it. The template is the contract for how configuration values populate for each flow run.
```

          description: Environment variables to set when starting a flow run.
          type: object
          additionalProperties:
            type: string
        labels:
          title: Labels
          description: Labels applied to infrastructure created by a worker.
          type: object
          additionalProperties:
            type: string
        command:
          title: Command
          description: The command to use when starting a flow run. In most cases,
            this should be left blank and the command will be automatically generated
            by the worker.
          type: string
        memory:
            title: Memory
            description: Memory allocation for the execution environment.
            type: integer
            default: 1024
        cpu:
            title: CPU
            description: CPU allocation for the execution environment.
            type: integer
            default: 500
```

This base job template defines what values can be provided by deployment creators on a per-deployment basis and how those provided values will be translated into the configuration values that the worker will use to create the execution environment.

> Notice that each attribute for the class was added in the `job_configuration` section with placeholders whose name matches the attribute name. The `variables` section was also populated with the OpenAPI schema for each attribute. If a configuration class is used without explicitly declaring any template variables, then the template variables will be inferred from the configuration class attributes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Notice that each attribute for the class was added in the `job_configuration` section with placeholders whose name matches the attribute name. The `variables` section was also populated with the OpenAPI schema for each attribute. If a configuration class is used without explicitly declaring any template variables, the template variables will be inferred from the configuration class attributes.
```

          additionalProperties:
            type: string
        command:
          title: Command
          description: The command to use when starting a flow run. In most cases,
            this should be left blank and the command will be automatically generated
            by the worker.
          type: string
        memory_request:
            title: Memory Request
            description: Memory allocation for the execution environment.
            type: integer
            default: 1024
        cpu_request:
            title: CPU Request
            description: CPU allocation for the execution environment.
            type: integer
            default: 500
```

Note that template variable classes are never used directly. Instead, they are used to generate a schema that is used to populate the `variables` section of a base job template and validate the template variables provided by the user. 

We don't recommend using template variable classes within your worker implementation for validation purposes because the work pool creator ultimately defines the template variables. The configuration class should handle any necessary run-time validation.

## Worker Implementation

> Workers handle creating execution environments using provided configuration. Workers also observe the execution environment as the flow run executes and report any crashes to the Prefect API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Workers set up execution environments using provided configuration. Workers also observe the execution environment as the flow run executes and report any crashes to the Prefect API.
```

2. If a template variable is part of a string (i.e., there is text before or after the template variable), the value of the template variable will be interpolated into the string.
3. If a template variable is the only value for a key in the `job_configuration` section and no value is provided for the template variable, the key will be removed from the `job_configuration` section.

These rules allow worker developers and work pool maintainers to define template variables that can be complex types like dictionaries and lists. These rules also mean that worker developers should give reasonable default values to job configuration fields whenever possible because values are not guaranteed to be provided if template variables are unset.

### Template Variable Usage Strategies

Template variables define the interface that deployment creators interact with to configure the execution environments of their deployments. The complexity of this interface can be controlled via the template variables that are defined for a base job template. This control allows work pool maintainers to find a point along the spectrum of flexibility and simplicity appropriate for their organization.

> There are two patterns that are represented in current worker implementations:

Reviewer 2: 🔥

#### Pass-Through

In the pass-through pattern, template variables are passed through to the job configuration with little change. This pattern exposes complete control to deployment creators but also requires them to understand the details of the execution environment. 

This pattern is useful when the execution environment is simple, and the deployment creators are expected to have high technical knowledge. 

The [Docker worker](https://prefecthq.github.io/prefect-docker/worker/) is an example of a worker that uses this pattern.

#### Infrastructure as Code Templating

Depending on the infrastructure they interact with, workers can sometimes employ a declarative infrastructure syntax (i.e., infrastructure as code) to create execution environments (e.g., a Kubernetes manifest or an ECS task definition). 

In the IaC pattern, it's often useful to use template variables to template portions of the declarative syntax which then can be used to generate the declarative syntax into a final form. 

> This approach allows work pool creators to provide a simpler interface to deployment creators while also controlling which portions of infrastructure are configurable by deployment creators.

Reviewer 3: 👏

### Rules for Template Variable Interpolation

When defining a job configuration model, it's useful to understand how template variables are interpolated into the job configuration. The templating engine follows a few simple rules:

1. If a template variable is the only value for a key in the `job_configuration` section, the key will be replaced with the value template variable.
2. If a template variable is part of a string (i.e., there is text before or after the template variable), the value of the template variable will be interpolated into the string.
3. If a template variable is the only value for a key in the `job_configuration` section and no value is provided for the template variable, the key will be removed from the `job_configuration` section.

These rules allow worker developers and work pool maintainers to define template variables that can be complex types like dictionaries and lists. These rules also mean that worker developers should give reasonable default values to job configuration fields whenever possible because values are not guaranteed to be provided if template variables are unset.

> ### Template Variable Usage Strategies

Reviewer 2: 🔥
